= Philosophy

This software development playbook is rooted in the values and principles of
the link:https://agilemanifesto.org/[agile manifesto] and the practices of
link:http://www.extremeprogramming.org/[Extreme Programming (XP)].

The authors of this playbook believe strongly that the _original_ agile
principles, and the practices of the _original_ agile framework, XP, provide the
best, most solid foundation for building enterprise application
software-as-a-service â€“ particularly at scale.

////
TODO: Briefly summarize the agile values and principles here.
////

Unfortunately, a lot of process dogma has emerged in the two decades since the
2001 agile manifesto. Project management frameworks such as
link:https://www.scrum.org/learning-series/what-is-scrum/[Scrum] and
link:https://kanbanguides.org/[Kanban] have hijacked the "agile" brand, so the
colloquial meaning of the term has changed from the intent of the manifesto
authors. For this reason, the authors of this playbook have avoided using the
term "agile" altogether. We instead write about specific principles like
iterative design and incremental build, and specific practices like test-driven
development and continuous integration.

An iterative and incremental approach is taken to this playbook, too. This is
a "living document", which means it is continuously evolving as we learn from
our experiences and adapt our ways of working to the changing contexts in which
we find ourselves.

A software development playbook works best when it is treated, not as a rigid
set of rules and procedures, but as a set of continuously evolving principles
and practices that we have found, through experimentation and learning, to be
most effective.
