= Terminology

== Requirements levels

Throughout this documentation, the following terms, when capitalized, shall
indicate requirement levels as defined in
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119[IETF RFC 2119]:

* "REQUIRED" and "MUST"/"MUST NOT"
* "RECOMMENDED" and "SHOULD"/"SHOULD NOT"
* "OPTIONAL" and "MAY"

== Stakeholder roles

In this documentation, the term *software delivery* is used to refer to the
end-to-end life cycle process of designing, planning, building, constructing,
testing, releasing, maintaining, supporting, and operating software products.
The term *delivery team* refers to a group of people who are collectively
responsible for this whole process. Delivery teams are cross-functional, which
means they are composed of people with different skills and expertise â€“ as
defined in the [roles] section of this playbook.

The terms *customer* and *user* refer to similar, but distinct, stakeholder
groups. Customers are the people or organizations who pay for a license or
subscription to use the software, or who commissions the bespoke development of
custom software, while users are the people who use the software. Consider,
for example, a learning management system. The customers will normally be
schools, universities, and other educational institutions. The users will be the
students and teachers.

For simplicity, we can assume that all customers will also be users of the
software (ie. customers are a subset of users). However, not all users will
necessarily be customers.

[NOTE]
======
The term "the business" is sometimes used to refer to the organization or
organizations for which the software is being developed. But this term is a
little nebulous. It can mean different things to different people in different
contexts. For this reason, in this playbook the term "customer" is preferred.
======

The term *vendor* is used to refer to the organization who is paid by the
customer to develop, maintain, and operate the software on their behalf. The
vendor produces the intellectual property in the software's source code and
configuration. Either the customer ultimately owns that intellectual property,
by paying the vendor the full cost of developing the software, or the customer
pays a license fee to the vendor to use the software, perhaps for only a limited
time.

Delivery teams operate within the vendor organization. But, where bespoke
software is developed and used internally within the same organization, the
vendor and the customer will be the same entity. In-house delivery teams
develop, maintain and operate software for their employer.

The delivery team, the customers and users, and the vendor, are all
*stakeholders* in a software delivery projects. All these groups have vested
interests in the successful delivery of the software. There may be other
stakeholders, such as financial backers, regulatory bodies, and industry
associations.

These distinctions are important because each group of stakeholders has different
interests and concerns, and these varying interests and concerns need to be
considered when designing and planning the implementation of software solutions.
